---
id: 82
title: 'About Oracle Comedy Errors'
date: '2002-10-19T17:23:12+01:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'One person cannot cristicise an application suite the size of Oracle alone. This page credits those who have contributed. '
layout: post
guid: 'http://ccgi.sdarlington.plus.com/computing/oracle/comedy-errors/about-oracle-comedy-errors.html'
permalink: /computing/oracle/comedy-errors/about.html
categories:
    - 'Comedy Errors'
tags:
    - Computing
    - database
    - funny
    - Oracle
---

**Credit where it’s due**

I am unable to criticise a suite of products the size and complexity of Oracle on my own. There are a number of people that need to me mentioned. Remind me if I missed you out!

**People**

Thanks to Anna Brabants who nearly created the term ‘Oracle Comedy Errors’ and certainly did an almost continuous stream of abuse (not all of it at Oracle).

And thanks to the rest of the project team, who invariable love Oracle products as much as I do.

Thanks to the people at Oracle support who no doubt have to put up with a lot, and offer much amusement if only after the event.

**Sources**

I’ve been on a number of projects that use Oracle, however most of the tales have come from the first two. On these I was a DBA and developer and ended up spending much time on the phone to Oracle support.

The first time, we were implementing Oracle Financials and Human Resources using a Sun UltraEnterprise 1 server and Compaq workstations.

The server was running Solaris 2.5, with Oracle Server 7.1.6, Oracle Applications 10.6.1 and an incredibly large number of patches.

The Compaq P166 clients ran Windows 95, with SmartClient Prod 15. Then Prod 15.1. And then with a number of ineffective patches… You get the idea.

The second time, we were implementing a bespoke client-server application. The Sun Ultra 1 (and later Ultra 2) server was running Solaris 2.5.1 (2.6) with Oracle Workgroup Server 7.3.

The Compaq P133 clients ran Windows NT 4 and connected to Oracle using OLE Objects through Microsoft Visual Basic 5.

Since then I’ve worked mainly as a developer (often doing data-loads) on Oracle 8. Any 8i critiques come from developing my [8i on Linux HOWTO](/computing/oracle/oracle-howto/).