---
id: 106
title: 'About "The Penguin Says"'
date: '2002-10-19T17:22:54+01:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'Why did I start writing reviews of Linux applications? '
layout: post
guid: 'http://ccgi.sdarlington.plus.com/computing/linux/tps/about.html'
aliases: ['/computing/linux/tps/about-2.html']
categories:
    - 'The Penguin Says'
tags:
    - Linux
    - Opinion
    - review
    - Software
    - unix
---

**Why?**

I’ve been using Linux since 1994, just after the first non-beta release version of the kernel came available (I think it was 1.0.9, but don’t quote me on it). In the early days I was a bit lost, I didn’t know much UNIX and I didn’t know much about the web, so I stuck to using the packages that came with the Slackware distribution. (At the time I didn’t need much more than the core development tools, anyway.)

Since then, I’ve got to know more about UNIX, Linux and the Internet and have started downloading and looking at a number of applications. Some of them are fabulous, others aren’t worth the time or bandwidth. But how should I know which is which?

As far as I can tell, there isn’t a way. Although there are loads of sites with links to programs and applications, there doesn’t seem to be anywhere that reviews and rates them. Until now.

**The task ahead**

There are thousands of programs out there, and all of them have a new version popping out once a month or even more frequently. How can I keep up?

I can’t. So, we need some ground rules:

1. I’m not going to review everything. I want to promote Linux as a usable operating system, so, in the main, I’m going to look at ‘user’ programs — word-processors, web browsers — rather than the new version of GCC.
2. I’m not going to review every release. I’m not even going to update old reviews. Each review will have a version number attached, leaving the user to decide whether it’s up to date enough to be relied upon.
3. You’re going to help me! If you’re interested in helping, [mail me](/about/contact-me/).

**Logo**

‘The Penguin Says’ logo isn’t really mine. I took one of the logo’s found on [Andreas Dilger](http://www-mddsp.enel.ucalgary.ca/People/adilger/logo/)‘s page and changed the wording (using [Paint Shop Pro](http://www.jasc.com) — I would have done this using the [GIMP](http://www.gimp.org), but PSP is much better at resizing images). The Penguin was originally drawn by Larry Ewing, the logo ‘concept’ by Allen Petlock. I hope they don’t mind.

**Me**

I’m Stephen Darlington. I’ve been using Linux for a number of years now, and various forms of free software for much longer. This is my vague attempt to put something back — I spend all day writing computer programs so the last thing I want to do in the evening is more! I can, however, manage to bang a few words together.