---
id: 149
title: F.A.Q.
date: '2005-11-18T18:11:32+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
layout: post
guid: 'http://www.stephendarlington.com/wordpress/?p=8'
permalink: /blog/faq.html
categories:
    - Blog
tags:
    - Blog
    - funny
    - life
    - Opinion
---

Most sites have a Frequently Asked Questions section and I don’t want to feel left out. So far no-one has actually asked any questions, so I am just guessing.

*How are you?*

> I find that I annoy myself by saying “I’m good” when asked that question. I’m just not convinced it’s actually valid English. I got into the habit when I found that many Americans stare at you blankly if you answer any other way.

*Who are you?*

> That’s a very deep question. Perhaps we could start with something a bit easier? If you’re impatient I suggest you ask someone with a Psychology or Philosophy degree and not someone like me who has one in Computer Science.

*What do you want?*

> [Never ask that question](http://www.midwinter.com/lurk/guide/035.html).

*I live in Nigeria and would like to transfer a large sum of money out of the country. Can you help me?*

> Ha! Like I’d make *that* mistake again.

*What’s red, round and ticks?*

> A clock-work tomato.

*Will you promise never to tell a joke that bad again?*

> I’m afraid all my jokes are that bad.

*Ever dance with the devil in the pale moonlight?*

> I don’t like the sound of where this is going, but in answer to your question, no. As I am a male Caucasian it’s probably best that I don’t try to dance.

*What’s the state capital of California?*

> Only a few people will know why this is funny. I’m not going to explain.

*Why won’t my file open when I’m eating toast?*

> That is the most stupid question ever! Do not have children! (This from the Daily Dilbert mailing on the 7th October, 2005.)

*Are you really as dumb as you seem from this blog?*

> Such rudeness. But probably.

Well, I hope you found that enlightening. Feel free to add a comment with any new questions you have.