---
id: 3918
title: Webcam
date: '2014-03-25T17:19:45+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'In less than a decade, webcams have gone from expensive, useless gadgets to utterly normal and practically part of the furniture. This was my journey.'
layout: post
guid: 'http://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=3918'
aliases: ['/computing/opinion/webcam.html']
categories:
    - Opinion
tags:
    - computer
    - technology
    - toys
    - webcam
---

I’m not entirely sure what I was thinking. In about 2005 I bought an [iSight](http://www.minimallyminimal.com/blog/apple-isight), Apple’s relatively short-lived external webcam. It was a beautiful device. Sleek, easy to use and functional.

At least, I *think* it was functional.

For a device that cost me well over £100 I didn’t really think it through. No one else I knew at the time had a Mac with iChat. Or a webcam.

Before I finally gave in and sold it on eBay I did use it a few times with my then girlfriend (now wife). And it was really nice; like the future. Having grown up with old, slow computers the idea of playing video on them is still slightly magical to me. To have a computer simultaneously record, compress, transmit, receive, decode and display high resolution videos still strikes me as pretty amazing.

Even now, web chatting once a week, I think it’s neat. My son, before he was two, thought nothing of having long, detailed “conversations” with his grandparents. What’s high-tech to me is entirely normal to him.

And all this leads me to my latest technology purchase: [a webcam](http://www.7dayshop.com/computer-network-wifi/webcams/7dayshop-hd-720p-webcam-usb-2-0-with-built-in-microphone-and-variable-led-illumination). I got it for two reasons: firstly, I’ve been using my laptop with the lid closed a lot, which means I can’t use its builtin webcam. The second reason: it only cost £5.

I’ve probably already used it more than I ever used the iSight.

Is it as pretty as the iSight? Is it as well made? No and no. But it’s amazing what £5 can get you these days. I added the following as a review:

> Considering the cost it’s remarkably well put together, comes with a decent length USB cable, has a flexible stand and works straight out of the box. The LEDs are a bit of a gimmick and the picture quality is a little muddy compared with the built-in camera on my MacBook, but it’s totally usable and easily forgiven given the price.

Webcams have moved from an expensive toy that I *wanted* to like but couldn’t actually use to a practically disposable tool — I’m sure there are drinks in your favourite coffee chain that cost more — that I use almost daily in less than ten years. I don’t mind being a foolish early adopter if it helps get genuinely useful technology into the hands of more people. If only all my other toys prove to be quite to useful.