---
id: 4311
title: 'iOS 9'
date: '2015-09-08T11:52:49+01:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'What are the highlights in iOS 9?'
layout: post
guid: 'http://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=4311'
aliases: ['/computing/opinion/ios-9.html']
categories:
    - Opinion
---

Apple are announcing their [new iPhones tomorrow](http://www.apple.com/apple-events/september-2015/). Along with the new phone will be a new version of iOS, version 9. You can read all about what [Apple thinks are the best new features](http://www.apple.com/ios/ios9-preview/). I’ve been using it myself for a couple of months now so I thought it might be worth a few words.

Here are my highlights:

- Battery improvements. Actually, they say you get an extra hour but I’ve not noticed. What works great is Low Power Mode. When it gets below 20%, the battery icon turns yellow and lots of stuff gets turned off or the frequency of background tasks is decreased. It’s not magic — if you *use* your phone it will drop to zero pretty quickly — but if it’s just sat in your pocket you’ll get a lot more life out of it.
- Spotlight search inside apps. This clearly isn’t going to be big until apps support it, but even with my own apps this is really big. I miss it on my iPad 3, which doesn’t support it.
- Looking in your email to guess the names of callers who are not in your address book. It’s kind of freaky the first time it happens. *How does it know that this phone call might be from Bob?!* But it works and it’s very useful. Oh, and if it can’t make a match it now tells you where the call came from (just as it has done in the US since the very first iPhone).
- Feels as fast, if not faster, than iOS 8 on both my iPhone 5 and iPad 3. After all the press claiming that Apple make big, clunky updates to force you to upgrade that’s nice.

Showing potential:

- Intelligence. That is, your phone will give you stuff before you ask for it. When I was visiting my parents it told me how long it would take to drive back home. When I connect to my Jambox, it knows that I likely want to open the Music app. And after a month it learned that when I plug in my headphones in the morning I probably want to open PocketCasts. Kind of neat.
- Improved Notes app. I use this all the time, but I wasn’t willing to upgrade my Mac to El Cap so I also wasn’t willing to migrate Notes to the new format. I played with the new stuff locally — saving links, lists, etc. — but syncing the notes is pretty important so I didn’t use it for real.
- QuickType. I love the *idea* of being able to use the iPad keyboard as a trackpad, however what I find is that I often end up deleting a paragraph of text, presumably because when typing I momentarily have two fingers on-screen and accidentally make a selection. Maybe changing settings or practice will make this more reliable?

Wish I could try it:

- I love the idea of being able to use iPad apps side-by-side. But, sadly, my iPad 3 is too old to support either the full side-by-side mode or even the slide over version.

Overall it’s a really nice release and it’s been very stable for me. It’s been good enough to use on my main phone since the beginning of August. Assuming a few minor glitches are fixed for the final version it should be a really solid release.