---
id: 4370
title: 'iPhone 6s'
date: '2016-01-07T19:11:07+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'Coming only four months after reviews on more mainstream websites, here''s my thought on Apple''s latest iPhone.'
layout: post
guid: 'http://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=4370'
aliases: ['/computing/reviews/iphone-6s.html']
categories:
    - Reviews
tags:
    - apple
    - iphone
    - review
    - technology
---

I wasn’t sure that I wanted a “big” iPhone as I was perfectly happy with the 4” form-factor. But if I was going to get a new phone and the new ones are bigger, I reasoned, I may as well go *really* big and go for a 6s Plus. On paper it made perfect sense.

Then I played with one in an Apple Store and I laughed. In practice it was comically big. I really didn’t want a phone I could only realistically use with two hands.

In many ways, my main complaint with the [iPhone 6S](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B015E8UHY6/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B015E8UHY6&linkCode=as2&tag=zx81orguk) is the same. It’s a lot bigger and I can only just use it one handed. Even a couple of months in, I think I still want a 4” phone.

Which is not to say that it’s not good. The camera is excellent. It’s *much* faster than my old 5. It’s my first device with Touch ID, and it’s great. Going back to punching in my PIN code every time would get annoying very quickly.

At launch I thought that 3D Touch would be a game changer and that Live Photos were a gimmick. I may have had that the wrong way around. The problem with 3D touch is that it’s not available everywhere, so you quickly forget to use it. This is not entirely Apples fault. Even my own apps don’t fully support 3D Touch yet. Live Photos, on the other hand, “just work” and they do capture a moment in a way that a simple photo doesn’t. They’re good for those serendipitous moments that you wouldn’t try to record a video of.

Overall I like it, but with more reservations than I’ve had with any of my previous iPhones after a couple of months with it.