---
id: 4433
title: 'iOS 10'
date: '2016-09-13T17:49:53+01:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'A few thoughts on iOS 10.'
layout: post
guid: 'http://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=4433'
aliases: ['/computing/opinion/ios-10.html']
categories:
    - Opinion
---

As I wrote [before](http://www.zx81.org.uk/computing/opinion/underwhelming-by-design.html), iOS 10 is an odd release to talk about before it’s generally available. Like iOS 8 — but unlike iOS 7 — almost all the good stuff is hidden in APIs, for use by developers. Which means that it’s probably going to be a nice update, but until apps are available it’s difficult to tell.

That’s not to say that there’s nothing interesting visible. Here are a few things that struck me.

- You get used to the the “lift to show the lock screen” feature on the 6s very quickly. It really is hard to go back to *actually pressing a button* to see notifications. I know, this is totally a first world problem
- Visual changes are subtle but mostly an improvement. I’ve not measured it but it feels that some of the animations are quick which helps overall
- “Share…” button when you long press a link in Mail. This makes sorting through iOS Dev Weekly (among others) so much easier
- Notifications really are much richer though we’ll only see the full benefit when apps are updated. Messages is almost worth it alone but makes *other* notifications all the more annoying as they just open the app
- Updates to the Music app are great. They even fixed the “add to next” / “add to up next” bug
- The updates to Messages really requires *everyone* to be on iOS 10. Messages look weird on iOS 9 and lower. For example, if you ‘like’ the message “Hello”, the older OS sees it as “Liked ‘Hello'”. Which, needless to say, is confusing

The final thing that I wanted to mention, is that after using iOS 10 on my main device for a few weeks, work gave my an iPhone SE which came with iOS 9. It immediately felt weird and I missed lots of stuff I’d barely noticed getting used to.

Maybe that’s the best proof of the pudding. It may not be dramatic but I miss it when it’s gone.