---
id: 4681
title: 'iOS 11'
date: '2017-09-19T07:52:18+01:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'The new version of iOS comes out today. But is it any good?'
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=4681'
aliases: ['/computing/opinion/ios-11.html']
categories:
    - Opinion
tags:
    - apple
    - ios
    - ipad
    - iphone
---

As I’ve done for the [last](/computing/opinion/ios-10.html) [few](/computing/opinion/ios-9.html) [years](/computing/opinion/notes-on-ios-7.html), here are a few quick thoughts about today’s new iOS release, version 11.

I’ve been using the iPad version since the beginning of August and the iPhone version for only a couple of week but I think I have reasonable picture of what you’re going to see.

### Good

- Multi-app support on the iPad. Wow! It’s quite different. You might need to give it a while before you get used to it. I also found that I needed to rearrange my dock so that apps I use to multitask are quickly available
- “Swipe up on the iPad keyboard to get symbol characters.” Such a time saver
- The voice synthesis of Siri is way better. But I [agree with Gruber](https://daringfireball.net/linked/2017/09/08/siris-voice), if I could have dedicated engineering resources to Siri that wouldn’t have been where I would put them
- iCloud sync for Photos. No more training each device to receognise each person!
- Lots of nice, minor changes. The “Now playing” lock screen widget, the “play” button at the top of playlists/albums in the music app
- Control Center is improved (but see first item in the “ugly” section below)

### Bad

- I’m guessing this has something to do with the iPhone X, but the one 3D Touch gesture I used *all the time* was the hard-press on the left side of the screen to trigger the app switcher. That’s gone in iOS 11. This is going to take a lot of getting used to
- It won’t work on older devices. I get the “why” but it always sucks when they get left behind

### Ugly

- Why did the WiFi button is Control Center change to be “disconnect” rather than “switch off”?!
- Not sure about some of the animations, especially on iPhone.