---
id: 5324
title: 'iOS 12'
date: '2018-09-14T20:43:06+01:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'Is it worth upgrading to the new version of iOS?'
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=5324'
aliases: ['/computing/opinion/ios-12.html']
categories:
    - Opinion
tags:
    - ios
    - ipad
    - iphone
    - News
    - review
---

As I’ve done for the [past](/computing/opinion/ios-9.html) [few](/computing/opinion/ios-10.html) [years](/computing/opinion/ios-11.html), here are a few thoughts on the new version of iOS that will be heading to your phone in a few days. Usual caveats: my usage patterns are probably different to yours, I have a 6s and iPad mini, not whatever weird and wonderful hardware you have. I’ve been using the beta on my iPad since early August and on my iPhone since late August.

## The good

- Stable. I’ve had a couple of minor glitches but, honestly, there have been worse *release* versions. (They *have* been fixing new APIs and suchlike so I’m not saying they should have released earlier. But I am saying that the GM version should be pretty solid.)
- Performance. As advertised, it works well on my far-from-new devices, probably better than iOS 11. I didn’t buy into the whole battery-gate scandal but if this is the result I’m happy with it.
- Siri suggestions. I’ve not seen the full benefits yet, since I’ve not finished writing my own and haven’t been running anyone else’s beta software. But even just with Apple’s suggestions it’s nice. I go to the gym and it suggests my “gym” notes document. I think this is going to be big when more apps support it.
- Do not disturb. I already used it a lot and now it’s better. DND until the current meeting and DND until I leave the current location are both super useful.

## The bad

- Nothing. Really. Sure, there are things that I would change or do differently, but there’s nothing that I would really look at and say “That’s worse than iOS 11.” If you’re okay with iOS 11 there’s no good reason not to update.

## The ugly

- What’s with the time and battery indicator being jammed in the very top left and right of the iPad screen? What a waste of space.

## Final words

You’ll note that “Screentime,” Apple’s answer to the accusations that people are spending too much time on their devices, is not on the list. I don’t have anything bad to say about it, but I didn’t find it very useful. I have my smartphone addiction under control. I could stop any time I want to…