---
id: 52099
title: ReWork
date: '2019-03-05T17:53:17+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'Building a business the same way as everyone else isn’t necessarily a winning formula. ReWork teaches you an alternative.'
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=52099'
aliases: ['/blog/rework.html']
categories:
    - Blog
tags:
    - books
    - business
    - Reading2019
    - review
    - work
---

The gist of “[ReWork](https://amzn.to/2BXZeNS)” [affiliate link] is that anyone can be an entrepreneur but you don’t have to follow the Silicon Valley tradition of seeking venture funding and providing foosball tables. If you do things right — different — you can make a sustainable business in a more traditional, bootstrapped way, and you don’t have to continually grow to be considered a success.

Many of the “lessons,” however, apply to almost any knowledge work. They subscribe to a less-is-more philosophy, and the book follows that example by being a quick read. Like the less-is-more outlook, that doesn’t make it bad, only very targeted.

If you’re looking for a complete framework for running your business, this isn’t it. (But then you’re probably not the kind of person who is likely to start a business I guess.) Instead, it’s a collection of related vignettes touching on varied aspects, from funding to focus to culture.

Much of the advice is so obvious that you wonder why more people don’t do it. But the fact that people don’t is exactly why their business (was 37signals, now [Basecamp](https://basecamp.com)) has been a success and that writing about how it works doesn’t give away any “secret sauce.” It’s not that people don’t know the “secrets.” It’s more that people don’t have the discipline to stick to the programme.

Overall, there’s a lot of good material in here. If you own or work for a small company where you can potentially put the advice into practice, it’s probably worth a read.