---
id: 64730
title: Bounce
date: '2020-01-22T17:40:34+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'With nearly several readers a day, what do I have to learn about success? I find out in this book.'
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=64730'
aliases: ['/blog/bounce.html']
categories:
    - Blog
tags:
    - books
    - reading
    - Reading2020
    - review
---

[Matthew Syed’s “Bounce”](https://amzn.to/2FM5Z71) [affiliate link] is a pop-science book that I borrowed from the library on a whim. It’s about the the “science of success” and starts with the idea that experts have at least 10 000 hours worth of experience in their field.

It’s… fine. I think I believed the thesis before I started but, while it was easy to read, I’m not sure how much it added.

The third chapter — about *deliberate* practice — almost had me for a minute, until I realised I’d seen it many times before. You see people at work who claim *n* years of experience but it doesn’t take long to understand that they just have the same year repeated over and over again; they didn’t grow or learn.

This is also the chapter where I agree with one statement in principle but not in practice. He says that while most of his examples show sportsmen improving their performance, the benefit could also be applied to society as a whole (agree) and that the economic advantage would be shared by everyone (disagree). We’ve seen productivity across countries improve for the last thirty years yet a disproportionate amount of the proceeds have gone to the rich. I’m not sure how we fix that.

He did lose me towards the end. Not that I disagree with where he was going in the last chapters about the reasons behind the success of black athletes[^1], but I’m not entirely clear that it needed to be in this book. Did he have to hit a word-count? Did he just want to include something he was interested in even though it was only tangentially related to the rest of the book? (Kind of like I did in the last paragraph about inequality.)

Anyway, it was an easy read. I think it reinforced what I already believe but didn’t significantly challenge or ultimately dramatically increase my understanding. Perhaps the 10 000 hours theory has so thoroughly permeated society that this book has been rendered surplus to requirements.

[^1]: Spoiler alert: it has little to do with their skin colour.
