---
id: 64936
title: Brexit
date: '2020-01-31T22:55:02+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'What can I say about Brexit that hasn’t already been said? Nothing much, it turns out, but I wanted to say something. '
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=64936'
aliases: ['/blog/brexit.html']
image: /wp-content/uploads/2020/01/img_5747-672x372.jpg
categories:
    - Blog
tags:
    - brexit
    - europe
    - News
    - Opinion
    - uk
---

As the Downing Street clock reaches zero, as Whitehall is lit in red, white and blue, as the Union Jacks blanket Parliament Square, I wanted to commemorate Brexit actually happening.

In fact, I’ve wanted to say something about Brexit since before the referendum, but what is there to say that’s new? But original or not, I needed to write *something*.

Far from a celebration, 11pm on 31st January 2020 marks the culmination of years of misdirected anger and politicians harnessing that for their own personal gain.

The reasons for the anger are real. Inequality. Stagnating, if not declining, living standards. But the causes are austerity and neglect, not immigration.

That was merely misdirection. There were also the lies. You know it’s gone too far when Johnson, in a room full of journalists and cameras, says that there is no press there. And he still won the election.

And *that’s* what makes *me* angry. The lies. The demonisation of *anyone* trying to scrutinise the changes or hold the government to account. Even if you want Brexit, you should surely want it done *right*. It’s gutter politics; you should be able to win without smearing your opponents and outright lying[^1] And I’m angry that “the public” have let them get away with it[^2].

I’d like to think that Gina Miller, Lady Hale, John Bercow[^3] and backbench MPs like Dominic Greave will come out of this well when we look back in a few years. The current batch of MPs waving through the Withdrawal Agreement in three days, not so much. Did those MPs forget, or not care about, the predicted consequences of Brexit?

There’s a lot more that I could say, of course, but this whole charade has been well documented elsewhere.

What I would say is that I genuinely worry for the future of the country. When I first wrote that sentence I stopped and wondered if I was being overly dramatic. But I’m keeping it.

The government has a large majority, unconstrained by details like truth or an effective opposition party or a press willing to hold them to account. The issues that brought about Brexit — austerity, income inequality — are still present and will likely be exacerbated by our separation from Europe. Yet the same government has little interest in the kinds of people that will be most affected by their own policies.

The main positive is that Johnson owns Brexit now. It’s his signature on the bill, it’s his party in power, it’s his team negotiating. He can’t blame parliament. The consequences are his.

If that sounds like I want Johnson to fail, you’d be right. But not at the expense of the country as a whole. If we *have* to leave, I want Brexit to be a success. I just have a hard time seeing how that could happen.

[^1]: I’m not naive, I’m not saying that Westminster has always been filled with selfless, upstanding campaigners but the ratio of good-to-bad these days seems badly skewed.

[^2]: Of course most of the public are not the Union Jack wearing, Nazi saluting caricatures we see on the news or Twitter. Still, *enough* people thought that lies were preferable to Corbyn’s ineffectual leadership.

[^3]: While you can’t ignore the bullying accusations, I think it’s fair to say that he fought for the sovereignty of *parliament*. This is the right thing to do whether leaver or remainer.
