---
id: 85917
title: Escape
date: '2023-11-24T10:53:00+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'Is liking a panellist on a podcast a good enough reason to read one of their books? I find out.'
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=85917'
permalink: /blog/escape.html
categories:
    - Blog
tags:
    - internet
    - politics
    - reading
    - Reading2023
---

<span style="font-size: revert;">Marie Le Conte is one of my favourite panelists on the </span>[Oh God What Now podcast](https://www.podmasters.co.uk/oh-god-what-now)<span style="font-size: revert;">. I thought I should make an effort to read one of her books, hence “</span>[Escape](https://amzn.to/470vUT0)<span style="font-size: revert;">” (affiliate link). It is about how Millennials were the first generation to grow up with the internet and how they shaped it.</span>

Whatever you make of the ideas or commentary<sup>[1](#fn1-22563 "see footnote")</sup>, one thing is abundantly clear: her personality shines through. You can hear her speaking every sentence. Fast, slightly scattered thoughts with the occasional random aside. In books of this type, it’s rare to come across lines such as:

> Still, that isn’t quite the point I was trying to make

In works with less personality the preceding paragraph would have been edited out!

Another example.

> (I’m very sorry, I’m going to have to pause for a moment to childishly laugh at the sentence ‘we were using our fingers instead of our mouths.’)
> 
> (Okay, I’m good.)

It’s not pretending to be a *serious* book, though there *are* serious points to make. It doesn’t quite hang together as a whole. She describes the chapters as essays, and that’s pretty accurate. Think of it as a collection of loosely related essays rather than a cohesive, single narrative.

The essays cover topics from finding your tribe to dating to how nothing is ever as good as it used to be<sup>[2](#fn2-22563 "see footnote")</sup>.

One of the serious points continues to be very relevant with the recent changes in ownership, and therefore moderation, of Twitter and Tumblr.

> All we have now is this tiered internet, where everything non-sexual can co-exist — including racism, fake news, abuse, misogyny and the like — but nipples are beyond the pale.

And apparently I’m a terrible person.

> I have been in full-time employment for nine years and I still bristle whenever someone sends me a short message with a full stop at the end.

I’ve seen people sign off their text messages. I don’t do that. But tapping space twice at the end of a text message feels like a small price to pay for have a full stop in the correct place<sup>[3](#fn3-22563 "see footnote")</sup>.

Overall, I quite enjoyed “Escape.” I wouldn’t say that it’s essential reading, or that it uncovers many new and unique insights, but you might find it relatable or funny.

<div class="footnotes">---

1. I’m not entirely convinced, personally. As a Gen X, I don’t feel substantially less online than many Millennials. [↩︎](#fnr1-22563 "return to article")
2. Millenials are getting old. [↩︎](#fnr2-22563 "return to article")
3. I guess this is the marker of me being Gen X. [↩︎](#fnr3-22563 "return to article")

</div>