---
id: 79312
title: Twitter
date: '2023-01-13T10:04:00+00:00'
author: 'Stephen Darlington'
excerpt: 'Should I leave Twitter? '
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.zx81.org.uk/?p=79312'
aliases: ['/computing/opinion/twitter.html']
categories:
    - Opinion
tags:
    - Opinion
    - politics
    - twitter
---

Sometimes it’s only when you start writing about a subject that you truly understand your opinion. That’s the approach I’m taking to answering the question: are you going to leave Twitter?

A few people have asked me in the last couple of months and the only response I have is that I’m not jumping ship and closing my account immediately.

But as the weeks have progressed, as I’ve written this piece, my thinking has evolved. It’s not that I’m going to immediately close my account but I can see The End approaching. Indeed, my usage of Twitter has dropped considerably.

When Twitter was delisted from the stock market, the concept at the top of my mind was this: can you judge a company on the person or entity that owns it?

Twitter has been badly managed or owned by incredibly rich people (or both) for a long time, but they still have millions of users. Is a change of rich person *really* that significant?

Is the fact that Musk isn’t terribly likeable a factor? Many people bought products from Apple even though Jobs was famous for pushing people to breaking point. You can appreciate the vision even if you couldn’t work for the individual.

To be clear, I’m not saying that no-one avoided Twitter and Apple for these reasons. I’m sure there are some, but not me and not millions of others. Is there a line that he could cross where I would leave immediately? Yes, and, in fairness, he’s got pretty close by allowing back some of the extremists who have been banned.

And, circling back to the management, Twitter has been a mess pretty much since the beginning. They seem to have difficulty shipping anything. They’ve largely eliminated the “fail whale” but what big, beneficial features have come since? The algorithmic timeline?[^1]

Like it or not, maybe the company *needs* shaking up.

Though, starting on the “cons” side, shaking up the company like *this* likely isn’t what is needed. It is the tech equivalent of the Brexit “solution” to Britain’s problems. Needing change isn’t the same as supporting chaos.

I don’t understand what over seven thousand people do at Twitter, but neither did Musk, hence the call going out to some of those laid off, [asking for them to come back](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2022/11/musk-led-twitter-laid-off-some-employees-by-mistake-asks-them-to-come-back/). More slash and burn than measure twice, cut once.

And Twitter’s considered approach to changes is out, replaced by arbitrary deadlines and hunches. $20 for Twitter Blue? No, how about $8. Available on Monday. Or Tuesday. Could be next week.

One common reason that people have left Twitter previously is the volume of hate and harassment. While I don’t doubt their experience, it’s not something that I’ve seen personally. I stay in my little bubble with tech and jokes and a bit of politics.

But it doesn’t feel like we’re heading in the right direction. Musk’s naive views on free speech are perhaps the most worrying, not in the sense that they have the most direct, immediate effect but because they demonstrate that he doesn’t Get It.

My hope is that Musk quickly learns and pivots to a more sensible, nuanced position. But his recent tweets about American politics and [abandoning putting warnings on COVID misinformation](https://arstechnica.com/?p=1900693) makes me think this isn’t likely. He seems to think that the problems at Twitter are about the technology, that removing a few micro-services and adding a few blade servers will make a difference. However, the problems are all about *people*, those who use the platform, those who advertise on it, and those who work there. Until he understands that, or defers to someone who does, things will continue to spiral.

In the end, as an end user, Twitter is all about the people I interact with every day. If *they* leave, it doesn’t matter whether it’s because of something that Musk said or did, or not. Their absence will make the site not worth visiting any more.

In short, I stay on Twitter *despite* the company that runs it and *despite* the person who owns it. I’m there for the geeky discussions, the dad jokes and despairing at the state of British politics. If that goes away, so do I. Find me [here](https://mas.to/@sdarlington) if that happens.

[^1]: Most long-time Twitter users think it’s terrible. While it does occasionally surface interesting Tweets, I do think I’d prefer the original reverse chronological timeline, too.
